README.md, before:

About
=====

Sigil is a free, open source, multi-platform ebook editor.
It is designed to edit books in ePub format (both ePub 2 and ePub 3).


Links
=====

* Its website is located at http://sigil-ebook.com

* Its current code repository is located at https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil

* Translations are located at https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/sigil/

* Support forums are located at http://www.mobileread.com/forums
    Select Sigil form the list of main forums

* Sigil Plugin Index (hosted by www.mobileread.com) at 
    http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=247431


Issue Tracker
=============

Please do not use the issue tracker to ask questions.  Both of the main developers
of Sigil monitor the Sigil Forum at https://www.mobileread.com/forums.
All questions should be directed there.

Issue tracking is intended for discussion around issues with the code. 
It is also intended for actual bug tracking and for tracking feature requests.

At one point in time issue tracking was disabled because it had become
unhelpful. The majority of issues where requests or abusive comments related
to Sigil not running on older OS's whose own manufacturer had declared
end of life.

Feature requests opened on the issue tracker will be closed if there isn't
anyone willing to implement the requested feature. Only items being worked
will be left open.


Linux Build and Install
=======================

The BuildingOnLinux.md file in the docs directory contains information on building
Sigil from source code (and installing it on Linux machines).


For Building on Mac OS X
========================

Building using purely XCode is no longer supported on Mac OS X.  The easiest 
way to build Sigil on Mac OS X is to use cmake 3.0 and the command line.   

Also because Sigil now embeds Python 3.5.X, see  

     docs/Building_A_Relocatable_Python_Framework_on_MacOSX.txt

for detailed instructions on how to build a fully relocatable Python 3.5.X framework before
building Sigil.  

Sigil requires at least Qt 5.4.2, or Qt 5.5.1.  If you use a newer Qt version you must
add back QtWebkit to the Qt sources and build all of Qt yourself from source, see

   docs/Building_Qt5_From_Source_with_QtWebKit_Added_Back_on_MacOSX.txt

And finally to build Sigil itself see:

   docs/Building_Sigil_On_MacOSX.txt


License
=======

Sigil is licensed under the GPLv3. The complete license is located in
COPYING.txt.

Note that libraries and components Sigil used and bundles may use a different
license (that is compatible with the GPLv3) from Sigil. See the specific
component for their respective license.  The source code from these
projects can be found under Sigil/3rdparty unless otherwise indicated.  
Please see their respective folders for complete license information.

Currently these projects include:

* Hunspell - http://hunspell.sourceforge.net
* MiniZip version 1.1
* Perl-compatible Regular Expression Library (pcre)
* ZLib Data Compression Library (zlib 1.2.8)
* jQuery-2.2.4 (src/Resource_Files/javascript/jquery-2.2.4.min.js)
* jQuery.ScrollTo-2.1.2 (src/Resource_Files/javascript/jquery.scrollTo-2.1.2.min.js)
* MathJax.js single file version: (src/Resource_Files/polyfills)

In addtion, Sigil uses the following other packages that have been specifically
modified for use inside Sigil:

* Beautiful Soup 4 (src/Resource_Files/plugin_launchers/sigil_bs4)
* Google's Gumbo Parser (internal/gumbo)

Commit message:

Update main README
Add links to the Windows documentation for compiling Sigil/Qt

README.md, after:

About
=====

Sigil is a free, open source, multi-platform ebook editor.
It is designed to edit books in ePub format (both ePub 2 and ePub 3).


Links
=====

* Its website is located at http://sigil-ebook.com

* Its current code repository is located at https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil

* Translations are located at https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/sigil/

* Support forums are located at http://www.mobileread.com/forums
    Select Sigil form the list of main forums

* Sigil Plugin Index (hosted by www.mobileread.com) at 
    http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=247431


Issue Tracker
=============

Please do not use the issue tracker to ask questions.  Both of the main developers
of Sigil monitor the Sigil Forum at https://www.mobileread.com/forums.
All questions should be directed there.

Issue tracking is intended for discussion around issues with the code. 
It is also intended for actual bug tracking and for tracking feature requests.

At one point in time issue tracking was disabled because it had become
unhelpful. The majority of issues where requests or abusive comments related
to Sigil not running on older OS's whose own manufacturer had declared
end of life.

Feature requests opened on the issue tracker will be closed if there isn't
anyone willing to implement the requested feature. Only items being worked
will be left open.


Linux Build and Install
=======================

The BuildingOnLinux.md file in the docs directory contains information on building
Sigil from source code (and installing it on Linux machines).


For Building on Mac OS X
========================

Building using purely XCode is no longer supported on Mac OS X.  The easiest 
way to build Sigil on Mac OS X is to use cmake 3.0 and the command line.   

Also because Sigil now embeds Python 3.5.X, see  

     docs/Building_A_Relocatable_Python_Framework_on_MacOSX.txt

for detailed instructions on how to build a fully relocatable Python 3.5.X framework before
building Sigil.  

Sigil requires at least Qt 5.4.2, or Qt 5.5.1.  If you use a newer Qt version you must
add back QtWebkit to the Qt sources and build all of Qt yourself from source, see

   docs/Building_Qt5_From_Source_with_QtWebKit_Added_Back_on_MacOSX.txt

And finally to build Sigil itself see:

   docs/Building_Sigil_On_MacOSX.txt


For Building on Windows
========================

Building Sigil on Windows now requires Visual Studio 2015, Python >= 3.5, and Qt >= 5.4.2
(with QtWebKit addedback in). Qt5.6.1-1 is currently what the Sigil Windows installer packages
 are built with.

To build a suitable Qt5.6.1 with Visual Studio 2015 (with QtWebKit added back in), see:

> [docs/Building_Qt_for_Sigil_on_Windows.md](./docs/Building_Qt_for_Sigil_on_Windows.md) ([or.html](./docs/Building_Qt_for_Sigil_on_Windows.html))

To build Sigil itself on Windows, see:

> [docs/Building_Sigil_on_Windows.md](./docs/Building_Sigil_on_Windows.md) ([or.html](./docs/Building_Sigil_on_Windows.html))



License
=======

Sigil is licensed under the GPLv3. The complete license is located in
COPYING.txt.

Note that libraries and components Sigil used and bundles may use a different
license (that is compatible with the GPLv3) from Sigil. See the specific
component for their respective license.  The source code from these
projects can be found under Sigil/3rdparty unless otherwise indicated.  
Please see their respective folders for complete license information.

Currently these projects include:

* Hunspell - http://hunspell.sourceforge.net
* MiniZip version 1.1
* Perl-compatible Regular Expression Library (pcre)
* ZLib Data Compression Library (zlib 1.2.8)
* jQuery-2.2.4 (src/Resource_Files/javascript/jquery-2.2.4.min.js)
* jQuery.ScrollTo-2.1.2 (src/Resource_Files/javascript/jquery.scrollTo-2.1.2.min.js)
* MathJax.js single file version: (src/Resource_Files/polyfills)

In addtion, Sigil uses the following other packages that have been specifically
modified for use inside Sigil:

* Beautiful Soup 4 (src/Resource_Files/plugin_launchers/sigil_bs4)
* Google's Gumbo Parser (internal/gumbo)
